Hello everyone and welcome to the environment set up lecture and this lecture we're going to go over
how to get everything that you need onto your computer setup.
This course is going to use Jupiter notebooks for teaching and the notes.
However keep in mind that if you're an experienced Python user you are free to use whatever development
environment you prefer whether it's pie charm a text editor such as Sublime Text that or no pet plus
plus whatever you prefer.
It will work for you.
All the notes can be downloaded as py files that are compatible with any Python.
Integrated Development Environment or id or texture.
So if you prefer to use something that's not the Jupiter notebook's feel free to do so.
Go ahead and check out either the fake Q or the lecture.
Jupiter notebooks for the resource download link for this zip file that contains all that you Pernod
books for the course.
Now let's go ahead and move on to the actual setting up.
We're going to be using the latest version of Python 3 for this course through the Anaconda distribution
.
All notes and syntax however are compatible with Python too so you can use whatever version you prefer
The syntax for all the libraries are going to be learning is essentially the same for both versions
.
Let's go ahead and go over the installation options for the Jupiter notebook's system.
If you're an experienced user already has Python on their computer you may wish to install Jupiter using
Python's package manager Pipp instead of Anaconda.
Just go ahead and go to your command prompt.
If you're a Windows user you can just type in CND to find it.
Or if you're a Mac user you can just go to your terminal and use Pip's 3 install Jupiter or Pipp install
Jupiter.
Depending on what version of python you have again you can just install Jupiter through a quick and
easy Pipp install.
Now if you're a new user it's highly recommended that you install the Anaconda distribution.
Anaconda is a full distribution of Python that conveniently installs Python.
The Jupiter notebook and a bunch of the other commonly used packages for scientific computing and data
science there were going to be using in this course that you can install everything at once.
Let's go ahead and go to w w w that Jupiter or to walk through the installation steps.
OK I'm going to go ahead and jump to my browser and go to this Web site.
I advise you to do the same so you can follow along with the installation procedure.
OK here I am at Jupiter dot org.
That's J U P white TTR org.
And this is the official documentation page for the Jupiter notebook.
Jupiter note book has an open source interactive data science and scientific computing platform that
can work actually across.
Over 40 programming languages.
Not just Python.
It's a really slick web application that actually allows you to create insured documents that contain
not just life code but equations visualizations and explanatory text.
That's why it's a really great tool for teaching data science and Python libraries.
I want you to scroll down on this page to see the ready to get started and then I want you to click
on try in your browser and that should take you to this page.
Try Jupiter.
Org.
And this is essentially a hosted online version of Jupiter.
We're not going to be using an online version.
We'll show you how to download everything locally.
But I just wanted you to know that this is an option for you in case you ever want to quickly just jump
to a browser and start working on Jupiter when you actually download Jupiter and have it on your computer
and run it you'll get something that looks similar to this and then to start a new notebook you can
click here on NEW AND YOU SHOULD SEE text file folder terminal and then some notebook options.
Now you're not going to have all these options on your computer.
Most likely you'll just have the option Python to Python 3 or Python roots.
One of those most likely it's going to just be Python roots.
You can go ahead and then click on one of these and it'll create a new notebook and then you can go
ahead and start typing in Python code such as Prince.
Hello.
Run this cell and it should all be working.
Now we'll go over in a future lecture.
How Jupiter notebooks actually work how to run cells etc. how to actually manage the environment.
But for now I just wanted you to know about Tricot Jupiter the.
Going back to Jupiter.
Or let's go ahead and install the notebook.
Go ahead and click here on install the notebook and it will take you to this link right here.
The Jupiter documentation page.
Installing a Jupiter note book.
Now Jupiter runs code in many programming languages.
What we're going to be using it for is Python and what we're going to do is use the Anaconda distribution
in order to install a Jupiter note notebook.
So if you go ahead and kind of zoom in here you'll see that installing Jupiter using Anaconda and Khanda
like I mentioned for new users.
It's highly recommended that you install Anaconda Anaconda conveniently installs everything for you
.
What you're going gonna go ahead and do is just follow these three installation steps.
It's really simple.
You're going to just download Anaconda.
So good and click that link.
Then you can install the version of Anaconda which you downloaded and then once you've installed the
Jupiter notebook to run the notebook either go to your command prompt or your terminal and you just
typed Jupiter space notebook.
Let me go ahead and show you what they Anaconda link looks like.
It looks something like this.
And you'll notice that there's a couple of options for you.
It says download Anaconda now and there's basically a download for Windows Mac users or Linux users
that will just take you over here to the actual download page.
So if you're downloading for windows go ahead and click on Python 3.5 and depending on what kind of
computer you have either a 64 bit or 32 bit.
If it's on your computer most likely you have 64 bit.
You can just go ahead and click on this installer or if you're using Mac OS go ahead and just click
on the graphical installer for Mac OS.
There is also a command line installer but I would really recommend just doing the easy graphic installer
method.
All you do is down the graphical installer.
Double click the downloaded PKC file and then just follow the onscreen instructions.
If you're a Linux user you can just go ahead and download the installer and then just use the bash line
in your terminal to actually install everything you need.
OK so go ahead and click on the installer download it.
Follow the instructions but just double click.
Being that it's executable file and everything should be working for you.
Keep in mind this is quite a large installation.
It's about 350 megabytes but that's also because it includes all the packages were going to be using
throughout this course so once you install this you won't have to continually install the packages so
I understand that it's a pretty large download.
There's also something called mini anti-commie you can use but I would still recommend that you just
download the full package environment.
That way you don't have to continually install stuff as you go throughout the course.
Once you went ahead and downloaded and just followed the onscreen onscreen instructions for the installer
you'll go ahead and on the windows computer you can just come to your start.
Type in C and D.
This will be your command prompt and that will bring up this sort of command prompt here and what you're
going to go ahead and do it.
Taipan J U P Y C E R.
Space notebook.
If you're a Mac OS you're going to do the exact same thing except instead of command prompt.
You're going to do this on your terminal.
You'll just do a spotlight search for the word terminal.
TR am I an AOL.
You'll get a very similar environment or pop up that looks like this.
It'll probably be an all white instead of a black background.
You'll do the exact same thing all Taipan Jupiter space notebook.
Hit enter and then in your browser you'll actually get a window or new tab to pop up and the new tab
will look something like this will be at local hosts either 8000 or a slash tree and then you can go
ahead and click here on NEW and you'll get some options for notebook.
Most likely you won't have as many options as I do here.
You'll either have something that says Python roots or Python 3 whatever it says.
That's OK you can just go out and click on one of these options and you should get a Jupiter notebook
if you can go ahead and just type in print and in print see say hello and then click here on.
Run the cell.
You should be good to go if that outputs.
Hello.
OK.
Coming up next we're going to give you more background on how to use the Jupiter notebook as a development
environment and later on we'll show you some other options as well for other ideas.
In case you want to use something that's not Jupiter notebook.
All right.
Feel free to post any questions over the installation process to the Q&A forums and I'll be happy to
help you out.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture